Amazon Prime Video Movies and TV Shows Analysis

Description :
This project involves analyzing the dataset of Amazon Prime Video's movies and TV shows. The dataset includes details such as director,
genre, release year, and various other attributes. Based on this data, a comprehensive report and dashboard were built to meet
the requirements of end users, providing valuable insights into the platform's content catalog.

Dataset Overview
The dataset provides detailed information about Amazon Prime Video's offerings, including:

Title: Name of the movie/TV show.
Director: Name of the director(s).
Genre: Primary genre(s).
Release Year: Year the content was released.
Duration: Length of the movie/TV show.
Country: Country of origin.
Ratings: Viewer ratings and parental guidance.
Description: Brief synopsis of the content.
Source: The dataset was curated to enable content analysis and audience understanding.

Features
Detailed analysis of Amazon Prime Video's content library.
Insights into popular genres, directors, and countries of origin.
Year-wise trend analysis for content release.
Report and visualizations tailored for end users to identify:
Most common genres.
Most prolific directors.
Release trends by year.
Technologies Used
Power BI: For building interactive dashboards and visualizations.
Python: For data cleaning, transformation, and preliminary analysis.
SQL: For querying and managing the dataset.
Setup Instructions
Clone this repository:
bash
Copy code
git clone https://github.com/YourUsername/Amazon-Prime-Video-Analysis.git
Load the dataset (amazon_prime_video_data.csv) into your SQL server or analysis tool.
Use the Power BI file (amazon_prime_dashboard.pbix) to explore the pre-built dashboard.
(Optional) Use the Python scripts (data_cleaning.py) for additional data preprocessing.
Usage
End Users:
View the Power BI dashboard to extract insights on Amazon Prime Video's catalog.
Analyze trends, genres, and country-specific distributions.
Developers/Analysts:
Use the Python scripts for further data cleaning and exploratory analysis.
Enhance or modify the Power BI dashboard as needed.
Screenshots
Dashboard Overview

Genre Analysis

Contributing
Contributions are welcome! If you'd like to contribute:

Fork this repository.
Create a feature branch:
bash
Copy code
git checkout -b feature-name
Commit your changes and push them to your fork.
Submit a pull request.
License
This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for more details.

Author
If you have any questions or suggestions, feel free to reach out!
